Now, on selecting a base image to work with
for your Docker project, that's actually
a pretty important thing to do.
And there's a lot of religious wars
out there about what's best base image.
There's some very lightweight images to use
and I think those are an excellent idea.
But, the companies that you are going into,
this is a very new and evolving area,
and you may want a more fully-featured
Linux distribution to work with inside your containers.
Such as Red Hat Enterprise Linux or CentOS.
That in the Enterprise, that's probably
going to be your two leading candidates.
So, I've decided to use CentOS for our base purposes here.
And I'm doing so because CentOS is
essentially the same as Red Hat.
Except it's not supported by Red Hat.
So, as far as teaching you anything compatibility,
once you're in a bash shell, it's going to be
pretty much the same.
If you're in an Enterprise, they might want you
to be using Red Hat approved images for Red Hat support.
So, that's actually failry likely
if you're in a big company.
So, I am going to be using CentOS here,
and in this part of the course,
what I want to do is bring down a CentOS image.
And by default, CentOS and Red Hat
do not have Java installed.
So, we need to go in and install Java
and I'm going to show you exactly how we do that
and install Java on a base image for our use.
Because obviously, if we're going to be deploying
Java applications, as you know,
we need the Java Runtime Environment installed on an image
so that the JVM is there and can execute the Java bytecode.
So, I'm going to jump over to the screen now
and show you exactly how to go through these steps.
We'll download a CentOS image,
we'll connect to it and then we'll install Java.
Okay, I have the command line here.
And what we want to do is run a CentOS image.
So, If I just do docker run -d centos, like this,
you see the image started up normally.
And if I do docker ps, we didn't get anything.
So, docker logs and I can paste it in the image name.
And we see that we got a random code here.
Which really doesn't mean anything.
And what's happening is the CentOS image
doesn't have a command.
So the way docker containers run is that they'll run
until that last command is completed.
So, a lot of times you get a container up and running
and you want to give it a command
that's going to keep on running.
So, that's a pretty common thing
to do with Docker containers.
So, if you're new to Docker, something like this
can trip you up.
So, I want to show you a couple tricks here.
We can do docker run -d centos
and then if we do a tail -f /dev/null,
what this is doing is it's giving a command
that's never going to end.
So, it's going to tail and follow /dev/null.
So, that's never going to end.
So, if I come in here and now,
if I do a docker ps, I can see that
the CentOS image is up and running. Which is what we want.
Now, if I want to shell into that,
I want to show you a technique to shell in.
I can do a docker exec -it...
and it is for interactive mode.
And if I take this naughty...
whatever that is, that is the container names.
And now, if I do bash, what this is saying
is docker execute interactively
against the container naughty and bash command.
So, if I hit that now, you can see that I'm root.
And I am inside the CentOS image.
So, if I do a ps -ef, these are the things that are running
and we can see that command there.
So, if I go in, let's see if I can kill this.
I should be committing suicide.
Let's do kill -9 1, and this should bounce me right out.
Nope.
So, for some reason, that process didn't die.
So, I thought a kill-9 and a PID 1
would do it, but obviously not.
So, that's hoping to commit suicide
in that container but that did not work out.
But, what we want to do here is clear this.
Now, the one thing we want to do is
see if there's Java installed.
And there's no Java version.
So, what we can do, since I am root,
I can do a yum install java.
And what this is going to do, it's going to go
out to the Yum repositories and tell it
to download and install Java.
Now we can see it, it's downloading
a bunch of stuff that's needed for Java.
It's going to prepare the CentOS image for Java.
It's going to ask is this ok, yes.
Bring down a few rpm's that we need.
And we are using OpenJDK, this is actually pretty good now.
I remember a time that the OpenJDK was
a little flaky and I didn't quite trust it.
But, with 1.7 and 1.8, it is definitely
the reference implementation.
So, Oracle has taken the OpenJDK
under its wing and nowadays, I think it's
just as good as the official Oracle version.
Now, if you're doing something high-peformance,
the OracleJDK is going to have
some advanced features in it.
And if you are paying attention,
we are bringing down the JDK and not the JRE.
And we probably could get away with the JRE
but for our purposes, having the JDK is not going to hurt.
And we can see that we're bringing down 1.8.121,
which is the latest release at the time of recording.
Now, by installing through Yum,
Java gets all set up and now I can do a...
We can see that I have the OpenJDK version 1.8 release 121.
Which is, at the time of recording,
the most current release.
So, this has prepared the CentOS image
for running Java applications.
You can see how easy it was to bring down
a CentOS image, connect to it and install Java.
This image would now be ready but,
what I didn't tell you at the beginning of this course
is there's really no way to save that.
We're going to have to repeat these steps.
So, we went through an exercise.
I wanted to get you into an image
by shelling in and manipulating that image
to see how it's like working with an actual Linux instance.
Now, what we're going to need to do coming up
is we'll create our own Docker file
that runs the commands that we did to install Java
and get that set up on this image for our use.
That would go into the Docker file
and when we run that command, another layer's
going to get created.
And then once that layer's created,
we'll have Java and installed our image,
and then that image will be ready for
A Spring Boot application or a Java application.
And we can run the necessary commands
to bring in our jar file and run
that jar file using the Java executable.
So, it becomes pretty easy to do
and we can do all that on the Docker file.
But I wanted you to see what's going on under the covers
because when you run it from a Docker file,
it becomes a little dark magic
and you don't see what's happening.
So, here you saw us installing Java
and we are going to be running these commands
from a Docker file to build our own custom image
that will run from the Docker command line.
(electronic music)